<languages/>

# Overview

Cloud Variables are variables that persist across worlds. They work in a
similar nature to [Dynamic Variables](Dynamic_Variables "wikilink") but
instead of relying on parenting or the world hierarchy, they instead
rely on paths and users/group ownership. You can think of them in a
similar way to a settings or configuration file for your favorite game.
Cloud Variables are more lively than this though as they are synced
between sessions, worlds and even your Resonite Dash.

Cloud Variables are comprised of two parts:

-   Definitions - Settings and configuration: owner, name, type,
    permissions, and default value.
-   Values - Actual values per user.

## Cloud Variable Definition

A cloud variable definition is made up of 4 Parts:

-   A path/name E.g. `AwesomeGadget.Version` or
    `PartyWorld.highQualityLights`
-   [Data type](#Supported_Datatypes "wikilink")
-   [Permissions](#Permissions "wikilink")
-   A Default value (Default value would be an output of the [To
    String](To_String_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink") node. An example
    would be Color, which through to string results in:
    `[1; 1.23; 0; 1]`)

Definitions can also be registered against a User or a
[Group](Group "wikilink"). Registering a definition against a Group has
some benefits such as:

-   Higher [Limits](#Limits "wikilink")
-   Additional [Permission Capabilities](#Permissions "wikilink")

### Default Values

When [creating a definition](#Creating_Definitions "wikilink"), you
supply data and configuration in a series of stages with each command.
Just in case you forget or omit a command here are the default values
for various properties of a definition:

-   Read and Write permissions will default to **variable_owner**
-   List permissions will default to **definition_owner**
-   If no default value is specified, Resonite will return the default
    value for this data type as [defined in
    C#](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/default-values).

## Cloud Variable Values

Each Cloud Variable Definition can have multiple values, each value is
tied to an individual Resonite User or group. A value just contains its
value and has no details about the definition. You can think of it like
a table with two columns an Owner ID and the Value.

For example if a Cloud Variable Definition was created with a data type
of string and a name of "Favourite Fruit" then you can imagine it's
values looking like this:

| Favorite Fruit    |
|-------------------|
| Variable Owner ID |
| U-Frooxius        |
| U-Nexulan         |
| U-Shifty          |
| U-ProbablePrime   |
| G-MyGroup         |
|                   |

The last row shows a value that is specific for a Group. This is only
possible for Cloud Variables that belong to a Group.

Variable Owner IDs (User IDs or Group IDs) with spaces need to be
written with a hyphen. Example: Group "My Group" becomes "G-My-Group".
Always double check your User ID and Group IDs they can be completely
different from a User's/Group's displayed name.

## Using Cloud Variables

Before using Cloud Variables they must be created and registered. This
is done by [sending
commands](#List_of_Commands_for_Cloud_Variables "wikilink") of various
types to [Resonite Bot](Resonite_Bot "wikilink"). These commands create
and register a [#Cloud Variable
Definition](#Cloud_Variable_Definition "wikilink") with Resonite. Once
registered, Cloud Variable Values can be read, written and manipulated
against this definition using [Protoflux](#Protoflux_nodes "wikilink") &
[Components](#Components "wikilink").

# Usage Notes / Warnings

-   Variable Definitions are heavily cached and will typically take
    several minutes to update. It's recommended to set them up fully in
    advance.
-   Reads & writes are buffered, batched and cached and will take a bit
    to propagate.
-   A current limitation of the cloud variable system is that they won’t
    be synchronized in real time across different sessions, unless they
    run on the same host/user. If you host multiple worlds/sessions on a
    single headless (or your own computer), the changes to the cloud
    variable will sync in real time within those sessions.
-   If different users host the same world, changes in one world won’t
    be immediately reflected in another and will take a few minutes to
    refresh. The current plan is to add full real time synchronization
    in such cases by integrating SignalR into our cloud infrastructure,
    which will help the cloud scale better for other things like active
    sessions or the messaging system as well, but is a bigger chunk of
    work.
-   Current limits, permissions, and other aspects are subject to
    change.
-   Changing data types is possible, however already stored values are
    not affected.

## Limits

Cloud variables do not take up any storage, but they do have limits.

### Definition limits

| Limit Type | Limit |
|------------|-------|
| Users      | 256   |
| Groups     | 8192  |

These limits only apply to created [variable
definitions](#Cloud_Variable_Definition "wikilink") and not to
[values](#Cloud_Variable_Values "wikilink") stored within them. For
example a [variable definition](#Cloud_Variable_Definition "wikilink")
of "U-ProbablePrime.FavoriteColor" can still have an unlimited number of
[values](#Cloud_Variable_Values "wikilink") for it for each user's
favourite color.

### Rate limits

When reading/writing from Cloud Variables the following limits are in
place:

#### Protoflux

With Protoflux, as the read or write is triggered by an impulse the
read/write operation occurs immediately at the time the nodes receive
the impulse.

Due to this the Read/Write process can be performed up to 30 times a
minute.

#### Components

Cloud variable components operates on a schedule, periodically
refreshing the values in both directions. These values are not that fast
right now but with further enhancements to [our
SignalR](https://github.com/Resonite-Metaverse/ResonitePublic/projects/5#card-61035251)
use. These values will update more promptly. Currently:

-   Reads occur every 5 minutes
-   Writes will be delayed(buffered) and sent every 30 seconds
    -   If the value on the component changes more frequently then the
        most recently set value at the time of the write will be sent to
        the cloud.

## Update Rates

Please read the section above [Limits](#Limits "wikilink").

## Supported Datatypes

When creating Cloud Variable Definitions a valid type for them needs to
be specified. The supported data types are listed below but generically
any primitive data type is supported. Reference data types are not
supported as references only work within one defined world/session.

<div style="column-count:3;-moz-column-count:3;-webkit-column-count:3;max-width:50%;">

-   bool
    -   bool2
    -   bool3
    -   bool4
-   string
    -   You can specify a maximum length for the string when setting the
        data type.
    -   The format is `string:`<max_length>.
    -   By default, strings have a length of 256 characters. The maximum
        length is 8192.
    -   Both User and Group variables are affected by these limits.
-   float
    -   float2
    -   float3
    -   float4
    -   float2x2
    -   float3x3
    -   float4x4
-   floatq
-   doubleq
-   color
-   datetime
-   timespan
-   short
    -   ushort
-   int
    -   int2
    -   int3
    -   int4
-   uint
    -   uint2
    -   uint3
    -   uint4
-   long
    -   long2
    -   long3
    -   long4
-   ulong
    -   ulong2
    -   ulong3
    -   ulong4
-   byte
    -   sbyte
-   double
    -   double2
    -   double3
    -   double4
    -   double2x2
    -   double3x3
    -   double4x4
-   decimal

</div>

### Enums

You can now also use Enum types, the cloud variable definition must be
set to string to sync properly. Once created you can use
[Protoflux](#Protoflux_nodes "wikilink") &
[Components](#Components "wikilink") with their DataTypes set to the
Enum you wish to use. For example `CloudValueField`<ShadowType>.

**More datatypes may be supported in the future.**

# Permissions

Cloud variable permissions are composed of two parts:

-   Action Permission - The type of action that a Permission Group can
    carry out.
-   Group/Type Permission - A group or classification of user.

When reading and deciding on a permission set do remember that in
**most** cases, each user has their own value for a cloud variable.

As an example in the following command:
`/setUserVarPerms test.color read,write,list anyone`. The actions are
"read, write and list" and the permission type/group is "anyone".

## Action Permission

| Action Permission | Description                                             |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `read`            | Grants the ability to read values of a cloud variable.  |
| `write`           | Grants the ability to write values of a cloud variable. |
| `list`            | Grants the ability to list all values or a variable.    |
| `all`             | Grants all above permissions at once.                   |

You can also specify multiple permissions at once, separated by a comma
so for example
`/setUserVarPerms test.color read,write,list variable_owner` would set
the read,write and list permissions on the `test.color` variable to
`variable_owner`.

## Group/Type Permission

### Common Definition Permissions

These permissions, can be used with both User and Group owned
definitions.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Permission Type</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
<th><p>Locations</p></th>
<th><p>Limitations</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><code>anyone</code></p></td>
<td><p>Anyone can read/write this variable's values. This is recommend for reading public variables but not recommend for writes as anyone can change anyone's value.</p></td>
<td><p>Everywhere.</p></td>
<td><p>- Cannot be used with <strong>write</strong> permissions on User owned definitions.<br />
- Cannot be used with <strong>list</strong> permission on User owned definition.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><code>definition_owner_only</code></p></td>
<td><p>Only the User/Group who defined the variable can read/write their own <strong>singular value</strong>. Useful for announcement/version control systems.</p></td>
<td><p>Userspace/safe contexts only.</p></td>
<td><p>None.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><code>definition_owner_only_unsafe</code></p></td>
<td><p>Only the User/Group who defined the variable can read/write their own <strong>singular value</strong>. Useful for announcement/version control systems.</p></td>
<td><p>Everywhere.</p></td>
<td><p>None.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><code>variable_owner</code></p></td>
<td><p>Only the user who owns the variable value can write/read their <strong>own value</strong>. In this case the definition owner cannot read/write values for other people.</p></td>
<td><p>Userspace/safe contexts only.</p></td>
<td><p>Cannot be used for list permissions</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><code>variable_owner_unsafe</code></p></td>
<td><p>Only the user who owns the variable value can write/read their <strong>own value</strong>. In this case the definition owner cannot read/write values for other people.</p></td>
<td><p>Everywhere.</p></td>
<td><p>Cannot be used for list permissions</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### User Definition Permissions

These permissions, can only be used with User owned definitions.

| Permission Type                         | Description | Locations                     | Limitations                         |
|-----------------------------------------|-------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `definition_owner_only_contacts`        | TODO        | Userspace/safe contexts only. | Cannot be used for list permissions |
| `definition_owner_only_contacts_unsafe` | TODO        | Everywhere.                   | Cannot be used for list permissions |
| `variable_owner_only_contacts`          | TODO        | Userspace/safe contexts only. | Cannot be used for list permissions |
| `variable_owner_only_contacts_unsafe`   | TODO        | Everywhere                    | Cannot be used for list permissions |

### Group Definition Permissions

These permissions, can only be used with Group owned definitions.

| Permission Type           | Description                                                | Locations                     | Limitations |
|---------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------|
| `definition_owner`        | Only the group who defined the variable can read/write it. | Userspace/safe contexts only. | None.       |
| `definition_owner_unsafe` | Only the group who defined the variable can read/write it. | Everywhere.                   | None.       |

### List Permissions

Due to the "list" permission having very limited valid permissions it is
easier to list what permissions are allowed for list:

-   anyone - Only on *'group* based definitions.
-   definition_owner
-   definition_owner_unsafe

### Safe Contexts

In most cases within Resonite, anyone can observe or even manipulate
what you're doing. These are **unsafe** contexts. When in places such as
Userspace,where the Resonite Dash is located, no one can see or modify
what you're doing. This is a safe context.

# Cloud Variable Commands

To create, update and modify Cloud Variables you will need to use
commands. These commands can be sent to the "Resonite Bot" within
Resonite, you'll be able to find it in your contacts section.

For each commands if you see Brackets`()` round an argument then it is
optional. Otherwise it is **required**.

## Creating Definitions

### User Definitions

-   `/createUserVar `<path> - Creates a variable definition with the
    given path.
-   `/setUserVarType `<path>` `<type> - Sets the variable definition's
    [Data type](#Supported_Datatypes "wikilink").
-   `/setUserVarDefaultValue `<path>` `<value> - Sets the default value
    for a definition.
-   `/setUserVarPerms `<path>` `<action permission>` `<permission type> -
    Sets the [Permissions](#Permissions "wikilink") for a definition.

There is also a command which can create a definition in one go:
<code>/createUserVar <path> <type>

<default value>

<read perms> <write perms> <list perms></code>.

### Group Definitions

-   `/createGroupVar `<group>` `<path> - Creates a variable definition
    with the given path.
-   `/setGroupVarType `<group>` `<path>` `<type> - Sets the variable
    definition's [Data type](#Supported_Datatypes "wikilink").
-   `/setGroupVarDefaultValue `<group>` `<path>` `<value> - Sets the
    default value for a definition.
-   `/setGroupVarPerms `<group>` `<path>` `<action permission>` `<permission type> -
    Sets the [Permissions](#Permissions "wikilink") for a definition.

There is also a command which can create a definition in one go: <code>
/createGroupVar <group> <path> <type>

<default value>

<read perms> <write perms> <list perms></code>.

### Recommendations

Generally, we recommend using the command which creates the entire
definition in one go, this ensures you do not forget any steps or parts
which can cause the variable to not be usable.

## Reading Values

For reading values using Protoflux / Components [see this later
section](#Working_with_cloud_variables "wikilink").

### User Values

-   `/getUserVar `<path> - Gets the definition for a variable (type,
    perms, default value)
-   `/getUserVarValue `<definition_owner>` `<path>` `<target user> -
    Gets a user's value for a definition. Example:
    `/getUserVarValue U-ProbablePrime testing.bool U-ProbablePrime`
    would get Prime's value for their variable testing.bool
-   `/listUserVars (`<user>`)` - Lists variable definitions of a user
    (default: yours). Requires `list` permission.

### Group Values

-   `/getGroupVar `<group>` `<path> - Gets the definition for a variable
    (type, perms, default value)
-   `/getGroupVarValue `<group>` `<path>` (`<target user>`)` - Gets a
    user's (default: yours) value for a definition.
-   `/listGroupVars `<group> - Lists variable definitions of a group.
    Requires `list` permission.

## Writing Values

When setting/writing a value, ensure that your permissions are set
correctly.

For writing values using Protoflux / Components [see this later
section](#Working_with_cloud_variables "wikilink").

### Writing Values with User owned Definitions

`/setUserVarValue (`<user>`) `<path>` (`<target user>`) `<value> - Sets
an individual user's value for a definition.

For example:
`/setUserVarValue U-ProbablePrime testing.bool U-Frooxius true` would
set the value of `testing.bool` to true for Frooxius' value of
ProbablePrime's definition.

### Writing Values with Group owned Definitions

`/setGroupVarValue `<group>` `<path>` (`<target user>`) `<value> - Sets
an individual user's value for a definition.

For example: `/setUserVarValue G-Cheese testing.bool U-Frooxius true`
would set the value of `testing.bool` to true for Frooxius' value of the
Group Cheese's definition.

### Setting Complex Values

For complex values, you may struggle to know what to enter for this
command. Here are some examples which may help:

-   For complex strings, surround the value in quote marks("). E.g. "My
    Cool Value".
-   For float3 try `[1; 0; 1]`
-   For colors try `[1; 0; 0; 1]`

## Deleting Definitions

You can delete definitions using the following commands:

-   `/deleteUserVar `<path> for User variables.
-   `/deleteGroupVar `<group>` `<path> for Group variables.

This command deletes both the definition and **all** values linked to
that definition. It also takes a while(around 30 minutes) for this
command to fully execute as it needs to clear values, caches and other
systems of the definition and values.

-

# Definition Examples

## User Boolean

Create a `User` variable of type `boolean` that anyone could read and
the owner (each user for their own copy) could write from User and World
space:

`/createUserVar testing.enabled`
`/setUserVarType testing.enabled bool`
`/setUserVarPerms testing.enabled read anyone`
`/setUserVarPerms testing.enabled write variable_owner_unsafe`

### User Color

Create a `User` variable of `color` type that only the owner could write
from Userspace and read from everywhere:

`/createUserVar testing.myColor`
`/setUserVarType testing.myColor color`
`/setUserVarPerms testing.myColor read variable_owner_unsafe`
`/setUserVarPerms testing.myColor write variable_owner`

### Group Boolean

Create a `Group` variable of `boolean` type that only the owner could
read, write and list from everywhere:

`/createGroupVar MyGroup testing.enabled`
`/setGroupVarType MyGroup testing.enabled bool`
`/setGroupVarPerms MyGroup testing.enabled read,write,list variable_owner_unsafe`

# Working with cloud variables

## Components

[ActiveUserCloudField\`1
(Component)](ActiveUserCloudField`1_(Component) "wikilink") - Like
CloudValueField, but overrides OwnerId with Local User.

[ActiveUserCloudValueVariable\`1
(Component)](ActiveUserCloudValueVariable`1_(Component) "wikilink") -
Like CloudValueVariable, but overrides OwnerId with Local User.

[CloudValueField\`1
(Component)](CloudValueField`1_(Component) "wikilink") - Uses target
field to store the value, otherwise similar to CloudValueVariable.

[CloudValueVariable\`1
(Component)](CloudValueVariable`1_(Component) "wikilink") - Represents
the Cloud Variable, can set OwnerId manually.

[CloudValueVariableDriver\`1
(Component)](CloudValueVariableDriver`1_(Component) "wikilink") - Drives
target field with the value of the specified Cloud Variable. Overrides
OwnerId with Local User.

## Protoflux nodes

[Write Cloud Variable\`1 (Protoflux
node)](Write_Cloud_Variable`1_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink") - On impulse,
writes the specified Cloud Variable for specified owner.

[Read Cloud Variable\`1 (Protoflux
node)](Read_Cloud_Variable`1_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink") - On impulse,
reads the specified Cloud Variable for specified owner.

## Headless Sessions and Auto-Startup World Options

Cloud variables can be used with [Headless Server configuration
files](Headless_Client/Server "wikilink") and [Start-up Configuration
Files](Startup_Config_File "wikilink") in a number of ways:

-   Configuring roles in a session.
-   Allowing/Denying users from joining/accessing sessions.
-   Provide custom denial messages for why a user is denied access to
    your sessions.

These options are **NOT available in the UI within Resonite** and
require advanced setup from outside of the game.

We recommend using a **Group variable** for these setups, due to the
permission requirements. You can potentially get away with an
appropriately configured User variable but Group variables will give you
the most control.

To set these up, you need to add the described parameters below, to your
configuration JSON files.

### Roles

To configure roles using cloud variables, add a `roleCloudVariable`
parameter to your world start-up/headless session configuration. It's
value should be the full path of the cloud variable you want to use. The
session will then use the Cloud Variable to determine which role the
user has.

When doing this you need to keep in mind a few things:

1.  The variable data type must be a string.
2.  It is **strongly** recommended that you use the `definition_owner`
    permission group for this variable. Other permission groups may
    allow users to override their roles.
3.  If no value is set for the variable and a user, the other methods
    for determining the role will be used.

An example setup would be:

| G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userRoles |
|------------------------------------|
| Variable Owner ID                  |
| U-Frooxius                         |
| U-Nexulan                          |
| U-Shifty                           |
| U-ProbablePrime                    |
| U-Vegasx                           |

With the corresponding JSON property which needs to be added being:
`"roleCloudVariable": "G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userRoles"`

### Access

There are a few variables and settings which can control access to
headless sessions.

#### Allowing User's Access

To configure access to a headless session, using cloud variables add a
`allowUserCloudVariable` parameter to your world start-up/headless
session configuration. It's value should be the full path of the cloud
variable you want to use. The session will then use the Cloud Variable
to provide access to the session.

This option take **precedence over all other checks**, including regular
session settings such as max users and visibility.

When doing this you need to keep in mind a few things:

1.  The variable data type must be a bool.
    1.  If it is set to true, the user will be allowed to join the
        session.
    2.  If it is set to false, or a value is not present, the other
        methods for determining access will be used.
2.  If its value is true, the server will allow access to the user.
3.  This is the equivalent of sending an invite to the user.
4.  Users can join regardless of the MaxUsers setting.
5.  Users can join even if the session is private. They will need a link
    to the session though.

An example setup would be:

| G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userAccess |
|-------------------------------------|
| Variable Owner ID                   |
| U-Frooxius                          |
| U-Nexulan                           |
| U-BadGuy                            |

With the corresponding JSON property which needs to be added being:
`"allowUserCloudVariable": "G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.accessControl"`

#### Denying User's Access

In a similar manner to `allowUserCloudVariable`, you can use
`denyUserCloudVariable` to deny a user access to your world
start-up/headless session configuration. Follow the guide above for
allowing access but use `denyUserCloudVariable` instead. When a value
for a user is `true`, they will be denied access.

When true, this option take **precedence over all other checks**,
including regular session settings such as Max Users and Visibility.

An example setup would be:

| G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userAccess |
|-------------------------------------|
| Variable Owner ID                   |
| U-Frooxius                          |
| U-Nexulan                           |
| U-BadGuy                            |

With the corresponding JSON property which needs to be added being:
`"denyUserCloudVariable": "G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userAccess"`

#### Joining Control

In addition to the above options, you also have the option to use
`requiredUserJoinCloudVariable`. When this option is added to your world
start-up/headless session configuration, its value for a user will be
checked when they join. If it is true then the user will be allowed to
join. If it is false then they will not be allowed to join.

Do note that this option does **NOT** take precedence over other session
checks. Even if this value is set to true, if the session is full(At its
maximum user count) the user will not be allowed in.

An example setup would be:

| G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userAccess |
|-------------------------------------|
| Variable Owner ID                   |
| U-Frooxius                          |
| U-Nexulan                           |
| U-BadGuy                            |

With the corresponding JSON property which needs to be added being:
`"requiredUserJoinCloudVariable": "G-Cheese.awesomeHeadless.userAccess"`

##### Deny Messages

**When using `requiredUserJoinCloudVariable`**, with your headless. You
can use a second configuration element in the configuration file,
`requiredUserJoinCloudVariableDenyMessage`.

This allows you to specify a **single** message that is sent to users
who are restricted from joining due to their value being absent or
false, in the variable defined in `requiredUserJoinCloudVariable`.

You must use, `requiredUserJoinCloudVariable` for this to work as they
are linked together. These systems cannot be combined with other Cloud
Variable or other access controls.

These options may be confusing at first but it is useful for controlling
session access, **without** bypassing regular checks such as visibility
and Max User Counts. We often see it uses for things like events which
require registration such as conventions.

# Additional Reading

For additional reading, please check the following sources:

-   [Resonite Weekly
    update](https://steamcommunity.com/games/Resonite/announcements/detail/3037092063869109014) -
    This update introduces the feature and provides usage examples and a
    lot of additional information.
-   [Initial Release of Cloud
    Variables.](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/740250?emclan=103582791462101905&emgid=3037092063865754153)
-   [First batch of improvements to Cloud
    Variables.](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/740250?emclan=103582791462101905&emgid=3037092063869444509)
-   [Second batch of improvements to Cloud
    Variables.](https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/740250?emclan=103582791462101905&emgid=3037092063872780203)
-   [Information about definition_owner and User
    Definitions](https://github.com/Resonite-Metaverse/ResonitePublic/issues/2139)

# Default Cloud Variables

Resonite has a few Cloud Variables that are used internally or
automatically set up for a user. These are as follows:

| Variable                                | Description                                             |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `G-Resonite.CustomUserColor`            | Stores the color for the user's default headset avatar. |
| `G-Resonite.common_avatar.current`      | Stores the user's favourited avatar.                    |
| `G-Resonite.cloud_home.current`         | Stores the user's favourited cloud home.                |
| `G-Resonite.virtual_keyboard.current`   | Stores the user's favourited keyboard.                  |
| `G-Resonite.interactive_camera.current` | Stores the user's favourited camera.                    |