<languages></languages>

The **Dynamic Impulse Trigger With Value\`1** node sends a dynamic
impulse when an impulse is received at `Run` which triggers any [Dynamic
Impulse
Receiver](Dynamic_Impulse_Receiver_With_Value`1_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink")
nodes (with the same `Value` datatype) present under the input
`TargetHierarchy` whose `Tag` input matches that on the Dynamic Impulse
Trigger With Value\`1.

## Usage

The `ExcludeDisabled` input determines whether [Dynamic Impulse Receiver
With
Value\`1](Dynamic_Impulse_Receiver_With_Value`1_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink")
nodes present on inactive slots will be triggered. Default is False,
meaning that all valid receivers may be triggered.

The `OnTriggered` output fires an impulse after any impulse chains
triggered from Dynamic Impulse Receiver With Value\`1 nodes have
completed. This continues the impulse chain which arrived at `Run`

Note that the tag system for dynamic impulse triggers / receivers is
completely unrelated to slot tag properties. When an impulse is received
at `Run`, this node starts a descending search for any [Dynamic Impulse
Receiver With
Value\`1](Dynamic_Impulse_Receiver_With_Value`1_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink")
nodes present under the `TargetHierarchy` whose `Value` datatype matches
that of the trigger. All such receiver nodes with `Tag` inputs matching
the trigger `Tag` will fire an impulse. Note that [Dynamic Impulse
Receiver](Dynamic_Impulse_Receiver_(Protoflux_node) "wikilink") nodes
will be ignored. The hierarchy search is highly efficient, however it is
best to set the input `TargetHierarchy` as close to the intended target
node as possible to minimize performance costs.

## Examples

ProbablePrime has a tutorial on dynamic impulses.
<youtube><https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6A0GQ4iABfY></youtube>

## Node Menu

}

[Dynamic Impulse Trigger With
Value\`1](Category:Protoflux{{#translation:}} "wikilink") [Dynamic
Impulse Trigger With
Value\`1](Category:Protoflux:Flow{{#translation:}} "wikilink")