<languages/>

# Error Description

If you're here, then you've found a [Stuck Sync](Stuck_Sync "wikilink")
that is caused by the "TooManyRequests" error.

You've found a message that contains something **like** this:

    Fail Reason: Response status code does not indicate success: TooManyRequests (429); Substatus: 3200; ActivityId: ....; Reason: (
    code : TooManyRequests
    message : The request rate is too large. Please retry after sometime. Learn more: http://aka.ms/cosmosdb-error-429,

This error means that there's a rate limit occurring between you and our
data storage systems which are a part of the Azure cloud service
offerings. This usually happens when items are being saved too quickly
or are too large to save temporarily. The issue usually goes away on
it's own if you are patient.

However, You can follow these steps to try and resolve it:

1.  Try restarting Resonite, this will re-start the sync and try it
    again.
2.  Try waiting for a while before restarting or trying to sync again.
3.  Try waiting for a quieter time for Resonite traffic before syncing.
    Later at night or earlier in the morning

This may take up to 48 hours to resolve.

**If you are impatient**, then there are some more items you can try.
These **WILL CAUSE DATA LOSS**:

-   Force the Sync to ignore records which are causing it to get stuck.
    This is done by following the [Sync
    Conflict](Sync_Conflict "wikilink") guide and using the
    `-DeleteUnsyncedCloudRecords` option within this guide.
-   You can [Clear your database](Clear_your_database "wikilink").

# Avoiding this Error

The Resonite team are aware and are investigating this issue, see the
[bug report on our issue
tracker](https://github.com/Resonite-Metaverse/ResonitePublic/issues/3729)
for more information. In the mean time, try these recommendations to
potentially reduce the amount of times you see it:

1.  Avoid repeatedly saving the same object multiple times - For
    example, waiting a longer period of time between saving copies of
    worlds or avatars.
2.  Avoid saving multiple items at once - For example, don't grab and
    save every single object you see.
3.  Avoid saving very large objects, for example a very complicated
    world, instead save portions of the object such as individual rooms
    or objects separately.
4.  Break up your saves, save an item...wait 5 minutes... save another
    item.
5.  Try using your [Local Home](Homes "wikilink") as a Local Backup.
6.  Continue posting reports, log files and information on the [bug
    report on our issue
    tracker](https://github.com/Resonite-Metaverse/ResonitePublic/issues/3729)
7.  Ask in our discord for more information.

#### Large Items

We've also seen reports of this occurring with exceptionally large
assets. For example very high poly scenes and worlds, anatomically
correct research models etc. In these cases these assets contain so much
information that they can exceed the rate limiting just by themselves.
If this is the case, then please try breaking them up as recommended
above.

[Category:Troubleshooting](Category:Troubleshooting "wikilink")