<languages></languages>

**Delay with value**노드는 `Trigger`에 임펄스가 입력된 뒤 `Delay`초 뒤에
임펄스를 발생시키는데 쓰입니다. 추가적으로, 지연 시간을 넘어 값을 전달할
수 있습니다.

## 사용방법

`Delay` 입력은 `Impulse`에서 임펄스가 발사되기까지의 지연 시간을
정합니다. 기본 값은 0으로, 1 프레임 뒤에 발생합니다.

The `Value` input value at the moment an impulse is received at
`Trigger` is stored. When the node is spawned from the node browser this
accepts a 'dummy' datatype, however the node will overload to accept any
specific input datatype when a wire is connected.

The `OnTrigger` output fires an impulse immediately after an impulse is
received at `Trigger`. This continues the impulse chain which arrived at
`Trigger`. If a user focuses a different world while they have delayed
impulses queued, the delayed impulses will fire as normal. However, if a
user with delayed impulses leave the world entirely, their delayed
impulses will never fire.

The `DelayedValue` output provides the value at the `Value` input when
the delayed impulse was queued. This is only available for the duration
of the impulse chain started by `Impulse`.

The delayed impulses do not continue the impulse chain which arrived at
`Trigger` and any temporary values, other than that the single stored
value will be lost. Each impulse which arrives at `Trigger` sets up a
separate delayed impulse with corresponding stored value and multiple
can be queued at once with different delay durations and stored values.

## Examples

## Node Menu

[Delay with value](Category:Protoflux{{#translation:}} "wikilink")
[Delay with value](Category:Protoflux:Flow{{#translation:}} "wikilink")